Version 1.0
___________

1.0.0
-----

This is the initial release of pVACtools, a cancer immunotherapy suite consisting of the following tools:

**pVACseq**

A cancer immunotherapy pipeline for identifying and prioritizing neoantigens from a list of tumor mutations.

**pVACfuse**

A tool for detecting neoantigens resulting from gene fusions.

**pVACvector**

A tool designed to aid specifically in the construction of DNA vector-based cancer vaccines.


1.0.1
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- Additional data, like example data and VEP plugins were not included in the
  package correctly so the commands to download these files would fail. This
  has been corrected.
- Class II predictions would fail if the protein sequences used for binding
  predictions in IEDB were shorter than 15 peptide sequences. This has been
  fixed.

1.0.2
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- The epitope length used for generating the peptide fasta when running with
  multiple epitope lengths was incorrect. This would potentially result in including
  fasta sequences that were shorter than the largest epitope length which
  would cause an error during calls to IEDB.
- pVACseq would fail with a nondescript error message if the input VCF was not
  annotated with VEP before running. A more descriptive error message has been
  added.
- IEDB changed the format of class II IEDB alleles which would cause an error
  when running with those alleles. pVACtools will now handle transposing the
  affected alleles into the new format.
- The standalone binding filters had a few bugs that would result in syntax
  errors during runtime.
- The indexes created for each fusion entry with pVACfuse had the potential to
  not be unique which would result in parsing errors downstream.
- pVACseq had the potential to use the incorrect VEP allele for positions with
  multiple alternate alleles which would result in the incorrect CSQ entry
  getting used for some of those alternate alleles.
- pVACseq would throw an error if the chosen peptide sequence length exceeds
  the wildtype protein sequence length of a transcript.

1.0.3
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- Stop-gain mutation were previously not handled correctly. If a mutation had
  a \* (stop gain) in the VEP Amino_acids field, pVACseq would throw an error.
  We now ensure that those cases are handled. pVACseq will also skip stop-gain
  mutations if the resulting mutant peptide sequence is not novel.
- pVACseq would previously throw an error if multiple mutations resulted
  in the same consequence. This is now handled by assigning a unique
  identifier to each mutation.
- We added a better warning messages if the chosen prediction algorithms and
  alleles MHC classes are mutually exclusive, e.g., if only class I prediction
  algorithms were chosen with only class II alleles. Previously, pVACseq would
  simply finish without producing any output or errors.

1.0.4
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- We discovered a couple more cases of mutations involving stop codons that
  would result in errors. These are amino acid changes (VEP Amino_acids field)
  for large indels that would span exon boundaries (multiple \* in the Amino_acids
  field), or amino acid changes involving the transcript stop codon (ending in X).
  These cases are now handled.

1.0.5
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- IEDB changed the format of combinatorial class II alleles to use ``/`` as a
  delimiter instead of ``-``. DP alleles were previously fixed in pull request
  `#85 <https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/85>`_ but this failed to
  address DQ alleles. This version fixes this oversight.

1.0.6
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- There was a bug in how alternate alleles were resolved when matching VEP
  consequence fields to an entry which resulted in certain indels to be
  skipped. This has now been fixed.

1.0.7
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- VEP82 and higher supports selenocysteine modicfications (amino acid "U"), which is
  not supported by downstream IEDB prediction algorithms. pVACtools now skips
  sequences containing this amino acid with a warning.

1.0.8
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- The log directories were accidentially included with the pVACseq example data.
  They are now removed.
- Some users were reporting mixed type warnings for pandas when running
  pVACseq. We added some options to avoid this warning.
