Version 1.4
===========

1.4.0
-----

This version adds the following features:

- pVACvector now tests spacers iteratively. During the first iteration, the
  first spacer in the list of ``--spacers`` gets tested. In the next
  iteration, the next spacer in the list gets added to the pool of spacers to
  tests, and so on. If at any point a valid ordering is found, pVACvector will
  finish its run and output the result. This might result in slightly
  less optimal (but still valid) ordering but improves runtime significantly.
- If, after testing all spacers, no valid ordering if found, pVACvector will
  clip the beginning and/or ends of problematic peptides by one amino acid.
  The ordering finding process is then repeated on the updated list of
  peptides. This process may be repeated up to a maximum set by the
  ``--max-clip-length`` parameter.
- This version adds a standalone command to create the pVACvector
  visualizations that can be run by calling ``pvacvector visualize`` using a
  pVACvector result file as the input.
- We removed the ``--aditional-input-file-list`` option to pVACseq. Readcount and
  expression information are now taken directly from the VCF annotations.
  Instructions on how to add these annotations to your input VCF can be found
  on the :ref:`prerequisites_label` page.
- We added support for variants to pVACseq that are only annotated as
  ``protein_altering_variant`` without a more specific consequence of
  ``missense_variant``, ``inframe_insertion``, ``inframe_deletion``, or ``frameshift_variant``.
- We resolved some syntax differences that prevented pVACtools from being run
  under python 3.6 or python 3.7. pVACtools should now be compatible with all
  python versions.

1.4.1
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- In version 1.4 we updated our usage of conda to use ``conda activate``
  instead of ``source activate`` to make it compatible with newer conda
  versions. However, this was leading to errors due to the way that we were
  calling conda. This has been updated and should resolve these types of

1.4.2
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- This releases fixes a concurrency issue with pVACapi/pVACviz that would occurr when
  users would try to visualize multiple files at the same time.

1.4.3
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- IEDB will output a warning if an epitope contains only amino acid symbols
  that could also be nucleotides. This would cause an error during parsing of
  the IEDB output files. This version updates the parser to ignore these
  warnings.
- We added some improvements to pVACapi regarding database file read
  speeds and transaction handling.

1.4.4
-----

This is a hotfix release. It fixes the following issues:

- This version starts enforcing a file
  size limit (14MB) to be able to visualize a result file in pVACviz.
  Larger files will no longer be
  visualizable in pVACviz since they take too long to load.
