Version 3.0
===========

Version 3.0.0
-------------

This version adds the following features, outlined below. Please note that
pVACtools 3.0 is not backwards-compatible and certain changes will break old
workflows.

Breaking Changes
________________

- The pVACapi and pVACviz tools have been removed. They have been replaced by
  the :ref:`pvacview` tool.
- The package namespace has been updated. The files will now be installed
  underneath a ``pvactools`` directory in your python package installation
  path.
- The aggregated report format has been updated. The headers have been updated for
  clarity. An additional column ``Allele Expr`` has been added, representing
  RNA expression * RNA VAF. For more information see :ref:`aggregated`.
- pVACfuse no longer supports inputs from Integrate NEO. Only AGFusion inputs
  will be supported going forward.
- The format of the pVACfuse all_epitopes and filtered reports has been updated to
  remove columns that aren't applicable for the tool. Please see the documentation
  for the pVACfuse :ref:`pvacfuse_all_ep_and_filtered` for more information.

New Features
____________

- This release adds a new tool, :ref:`pvacview`. pVACview is an R Shiny application that
  allows for that visualization of the pVACseq aggregated report file to review, explore,
  and prioritize the different neoantigen candidates predicted by pVACseq.
- The 3.0 release adds several improvements to the reference proteome
  similarity step:

  - Users can now run the reference proteome similarity step with a standalone
    Protein BLAST installation. To use a standalone BLASTp installation, provide the
    installation path using the ``--blastp-path`` parameter. The supported
    Protein BLAST databases are ``refseq_select_prot`` and ``refseq_protein``.
    Please reference the :ref:`blast` documentation for further instructions.
  - When running the reference proteome similarity step using the NCBI Protein BLAST API,
    users can now pick between the ``refseq_select_prot`` and ``refseq_protein``
    databases.
  - Parallelization has been added to the reference proteome similarity step.
    When running this step as part of the pVACseq, pVACfuse, or pVACbind
    pipelines, the existing ``--t`` parameter will also be used to set the number of
    parallel threads in this step.

- This release adds standalone commands to run stability predictions, cleavage
  site predictions, and the reference proteome similarity step on the output
  of the :ref:`pVACseq<optional_downstream_analysis_tools_label>`, :ref:`pVACfuse<pvacfuse_tools>`, and :ref:`pVACbind<pvacbind_tools>` pipelines.

Minor Updates
_____________

- Previously, when running NetChop for cleavage site predictions, predictions
  were made for each epitope individually. However, these predictions will
  differ if additional flanking amino acids are provided and will be stable
  with 9 or more flanking amino acids. We updated this step to make predictions
  with 9 flanking amino acids around each epitope to generate stable
  predictions.
- This release adds a ``--species`` option to the ``valid_alleles`` commands
  to filter alleles on a species of interest.
- This release adds a ``--pass-only`` flag to the ``pvacseq
  generate_protein_fasta`` commands to only process VCF entries that do not
  have a FILTER set.
- This release adds a new parameter ``--tumor-purity``. This parameter indicates
  the fraction of tumor cells in the tumor sample and is used during aggregate
  report creation for a simple estimation whether variants are subclonal or clonal based on VAF.

Version 3.0.1
-------------

This is a bugfix release. It fixes the following problem(s):

- There was small issue in pVACview where picking a different number of
  variants in the main table would cause changes to variant evaluations
  to not be recorded correctly.
- This release also fixes a problem where loading a new set of files into
  pVACview would not reset previous evaluation summary counts.
- This release fixes an error in pVACtools that would occur when a chromosomal
  region in the somatic VCF is not present in the proximal VCF.
- This release adds further error checking for malformed CSQ header
  descriptions.
- This release updates various code portions to remove deprecation warnings and
  add support for  newer versions of certain dependencies (e.g. pandas).
- This release fixes an bug with the standalone ``pvacseq
  calculate_reference_proteome_similarity`` command where picking a custom
  ``--match-length`` would throw an error.
- Some users were reporting errors during the tmp file cleanup stages of
  running the various pipelines. This releases fixes that issue.

Version 3.0.2
-------------

This is a bugfix release. It fixes the following problem(s):

- Newer versions of Ensembl annotations added genes without a HUGO gene name.
  Variants on those genes cause downstream errors in the aggregate report creation when running
  the pVACseq pipeline. This release fixes this error.
