Version 5.1
===========

Version 5.1.0
-------------

This is a minor feature release. It adds the following features:

- This update allows pVACvector to remove peptides in order to find a partial solution if a full solution cannot be found.
  The number of peptides permitted to be removed can be controlled by the ``--allow-n-peptide-exclusion`` parameter. by
  @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1168
- This update adds functionalities to pVACvector to prevent the core neoantigen candidate from getting clipped. by
  @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1174
- When only elution algorithms are chosen and no binding affinity algorithms,
  the pipelines will now output a warning message that no aggregated report
  can be created. by @ldhtnp in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1165
- When creating the aggregated report, the Best Peptide for some variants
  may not match the aggregate inclusion criteria and no detail information
  would be available for this peptide when investigating the variant. This
  update ensures that the Best Peptide is always included in the metrics file
  and counted toward the Num Included Peptides count. by @susannasiebert in
  https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1177
- The evaluation buttons in pVACview will now be colored green for Accept, red
  for Reject, and orange for Review to visually differentiate the different
  statuses. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1173

It also fixes the following problem(s):

- This release removes two parameters from pVACvector: ``--aggregate-inclusion-binding-threshold`` and ``--aggregate-inclusion-count-limit``
  which are not applicable to this pipeline. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1180
- This release fixes various pVACview bugs. Specifically, it fixes a bug that
  would result in pVACview crashing when a variant with a Num Included
  Peptides of 0 was selected. It also fixes a bug where re-tiering the
  candidates before selecting evaluations would result in evaluations being
  associated with incorrect variants. Additionally, it fixes several
  deprecation warnings and typos. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1173
