Version 5.2
===========

Version 5.2.0
-------------

This is a minor feature release. It adds the following features:

- Add a new parameter ``--percentile-threshold-strategy`` that controls
  filtering and tiering behavior when a percentile threshold is set.
  If this parameter is set to ``conservative`` a candidate has to pass both
  the binding affinity and percentile score thresholds. If it is set to
  ``exploratory`` it only has to pass either the binding affinity or the
  percentile score threshold. by @ldhtnp in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1185
- Add a new parameter ``--netmhciipan-version`` that controls which version
  of ``NetMHCIIpan`` and ``NetMHCIIpanEL`` are being run. The default remains
  version 4.1. by @ldhtnp in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1181
- The meaning of the Mutation Position column (in the all_epitopes.tsv and filtered.tsv pVACseq reports)
  and the Pos column (in the aggregated pVACseq report) has been updated to reflect the position(s) in
  the mutant epitope that are different from the matched wildtype epitope.

  - This is different from the previous behaviors, particular for indels, where previously
    this column was trying to reflect where the mutation occurred. However, this has proven
    difficult to programmatically determine correctly for cases with proximal variants,
    in repetitive regions, or where the mutant amino acid(s) are similar the wildtype amino
    acid(s).
  - For inframe indels, this change might now result in some positions getting marked as different
    from the matched wildtype amino acid even though they aren't technically
    part of the variant because wildtype amino acids are shifted in relation to the mutant in this
    type of variants. These shifted amino acids, although not mutated, are now different
    between mutant and matched wildtype epitope and marked as such. We do believe that this is the better approach
    because it allows us to evaluate the absolute differences between the matched wildtype and mutant epitopes.
  - These columns are now always ``NA`` if the wildtype epitope is ``NA``
  - For making the anchor position evaluation, epitopes with more than two Mutation Position/Pos entries are auto-passed.

It also fixes the following problem(s):

- Fix a bug in the Mutation Position/Pos column where proximal variants and
  certain inframe indels might result in the incorrect position(s) being
  identified. As part of this bugfix, the meaning of these columns has been
  updated (see above.)
- Fix Mutation Position column by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1206
- Fix pVACvector bug that would result in not all junctional epitopes getting tested on clipping. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1200
- Fix a pVACvector bug that would result in an error if the ``-k`` flag was not set in a run. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1186
- Fix warning related to new lines in the mouse anchor data files in pVACview. by @ldhtnp in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1184
- Fix the column tooltips in pVACview which were previously shifted by a couple of columns. by @ldhtnp in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1189
- Fix description of the ``ref_fasta`` positional parameter in pvacsplice. by @mhoang22 in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1201
- Fix an issue in pVACsplice which would throw an error with non-human transcripts. by @mhoang22 in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1198

