Version 5.3
===========

Version 5.3.0
-------------

This is a minor feature release. It adds the following features:

* Identify junctions included in final vector design in the junctions.tsv. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1216
* Prevent Excel export in pVACview from creating extra title header row. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1227

It also fixes the following problem(s):

* Ensure export in pVACview maintains the Index column. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1213
* Enable auto-combination of DP and DQ alpha and beta chains in pVACsplice. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1219
* Handle pVACsplice generate_protein_fasta cases where mutant sequence contains no epitopes different from wildtype. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1226
* Support pVACsplice regtools/gtf input data with missing transcript_version field. by @mhoang22 in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1224
* Ensure that the directory names generated when removing peptides in pVACvector graph don't contain "/". by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1218

Version 5.3.1
-------------

This is a bugfix release. It fixes the following problem(s):

* Filter out epitopes in pVACsplice with unsupported amino acids. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1238
* Fix missing netmhciipan_version processing in pVACfuse. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1231
* Fix incorrect na comparison in aggregated report creation. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1233
* Fix bug with pVACsplice output parsing logic when running EL algorithms only. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1240
* Fix bug in test call to call_iedb. iedb_retries needs to be an int. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1241
* Update pVACsplice anchor-types to be comma-separated instead of space-separated. by @susannasiebert in https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools/pull/1242
